\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-sdl2.info
@settitle Guile-SDL2
@c %**end of header

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019  David Thompson @email{davet@@gnu.org}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.

@end quotation

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry
* Guile-SDL2: (guile-sdl2).     SDL2 bindings for Guile.
@end direntry

The document was typeset with
@uref{http://www.texinfo.org/, GNU Texinfo}.

@end copying

@titlepage
@title Guile-SDL2
@subtitle Using Guile Scheme bindings for SDL2
@author David Thompson
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Guile-SDL2

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@c Generate the nodes for this menu with `C-c C-u C-m'.
@menu
* Introduction::                About Guile-SDL2.
* Installation::                Installing Guile-SDL2.
* API Reference::               High-level Scheme interfaces to SDL2.
* Contributing::                Guidelines for hacking Guile-SDL2.

* Copying This Manual::         The GNU Free Documentation License and you!
* Index::
@end menu

@c Update all node entries with `C-c C-u C-n'.
@c Insert new nodes with `C-c C-c n'.

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

Guile-SDL2 provides both low-level and high-level Guile Scheme
bindings to the Simple DirectMedia Layer version 2.0 C library.  The
bindings are written in pure Scheme by using Guile's foreign function
interface.  In addition to the SDL2 core library, bindings are also
provided for the SDL2_image, SDL2_mixer, and SDL2_ttf add-on
libraries.

While Guile-SDL2 does provide direct, low-level bindings for the SDL2
C API, its main feature is exposing high-level interfaces that Scheme
programmers will find comfortable to use, hiding away the ugly,
foreign C details.  This manual will cover only the high-level API.
@pxref{API Reference}

As of this writing, the bindings are useful, but @emph{incomplete}.
If you find an SDL2 feature that you cannot use with Guile-SDL2, let
us know and maybe send a patch! @pxref{Contributing}

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

Guile-SDL2 is available for download from its website at
@url{dthompson.us/projects/guile-sdl2.html}.  This section describes
the software requirements of Guile-SDL2, as well as how to install it.

The build procedure for Guile-SDL2 is the same as for GNU software
packages, and is not covered here.  Please see the files
@file{README.org} and @file{INSTALL.org} for additional details.

@menu
* Requirements::                Software needed to build and run Guile-SDL2.
@end menu

@node Requirements
@section Requirements

Guile-SDL2 depends on the following packages:

@itemize
@item @url{https://gnu.org/software/guile, GNU Guile}, version 2.0.11 or later;
@item @url{https://libsdl.org, SDL2}, version 2.0.0 or later;
@end itemize

Guile-SDL2 has the following optional dependencies:

@itemize
@item @url{https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image, SDL2_image}, version 2.0.0 or later;
@item @url{https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_mixer, SDL2_mixer}, version 2.0.0 or later;
@item @url{https://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_ttf, SDL2_ttf}, version 2.0.0 or later;
@end itemize

@node API Reference
@chapter API Reference

@include api.texi

@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing

@menu
* Getting the Source::          Getting good with Git.
* Submitting Patches::          Patches welcome!
* Chat::                        Let's talk!
@end menu

@node Getting the Source
@section Getting the Source

Guile-SDL2 is developed using the Git version control system.  The
repository can be cloned with the following command:

@example
git clone https://git.dthompson.us/guile-sdl2.git
@end example

To build the source code from a Git checkout, run the following:

@example
./bootstrap
./configure
make
@end example

To start a Guile REPL with a pre-configured load path for using
Guile-SDL2, use the @code{pre-inst-env} script:

@example
./pre-inst-env guile
@end example

@node Submitting Patches
@section Submitting Patches

Patches generated by @code{git format-patch} may be sent to
@email{davet@@gnu.org}.  Thanks in advance!

@node Chat
@section Chat

The maintainer of this library hangs out in the @code{#guile} channel
on @url{irc.libera.chat}, so help and general discussion may be found
there.

@node Copying This Manual
@appendix Copying This Manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.
@end menu

@c Get fdl.texi from http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html
@node GNU Free Documentation License
@section GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@syncodeindex tp fn
@syncodeindex vr fn
@printindex fn

@bye

@c guile-sdl2.texi ends here
